[tutorial] Build a Tooltip element (#740)
lit/lit.dev: packages/lit-dev-content/site/tutorials/content/tooltip/07.md

You've polished the tooltip's behavior with animations. Now it's time to ensure
great performance.

Since a tooltip displays only when a user interacts with the target, the tooltip
does not need to be created until interaction. If a page uses a lot of
tooltips, which is not uncommon, adding this optimization can speed up initial
page rendering by a meaningful amount.

To do this, you'll create a function users will call with a tooltip target
element and a callback that will render tooltip content on demand when
its needed.

Add a `static` method to the `SimpleTooltip` class called

> `lazy`. It will setup event listeners on the target element that listen on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`lazy`. It will set up event listeners on the target element that listen on the
```

the `lazy` method. To do so, first remove the inline tooltip:

### my-content.ts
```html
<p>
  <span id="greeting">Hello, ${this.name}! <span class="icon">info_outline</span></span>
</p>
```

Then define a `firstUpdated` lifecycle callback to setup the call to `lazy`.

{% switchable-sample %}

```ts
import {SimpleTooltip} from './simple-tooltip.js';

@customElement('my-content')
export class MyContent extends LitElement {
  // ...
  firstUpdated() {
    const greeting = this.shadowRoot!.getElementById('greeting')!;
    SimpleTooltip.lazy(greeting, (tooltip: SimpleTooltip) => {
      tooltip.textContent = `${this.name}, there's coffee available in the lounge.`;
    });
  }
```

```js
import {SimpleTooltip} from './simple-tooltip.js';

export class MyContent extends LitElement {
  // ...
  firstUpdated() {
    const greeting = this.shadowRoot.getElementById('greeting');
    SimpleTooltip.lazy(greeting, (tooltip) => {
      tooltip.textContent = `${this.name}, there's coffee available in the lounge.`;
    });
  }
```

{% endswitchable-sample %}

The tooltip for the greeting element should work the same now, but it's created

> on demand when one of the "enter" events is triggered. If you do this for

Reviewer: If you do this for all => kind of suggests you _should_, and maybe that's fine... But given that the next step is going to replace all of this code, maybe an alternate cue like,

You could do this for all of the tooltips to ensure they don't impost a performance penalty on initial page render. But adding them this way is a lot of extra code. In the next step, you'll simplify the process of adding a tooltip. (Or: remove some of this boilerplate.)

You've polished the tooltip's behavior with animations. Now it's time to ensure

> great performance. Since a tooltip displays only when the user interacts with its

Reviewer 2: newline after performance

Author: Done

> target, it doesn't need to be created until then. If a page uses a lot of

Reviewer 2: Using callbacks to previous parts of a sentence like `then` in this case may lead to readers getting confused or having to double back if they're skimming. I recommend changing this to something like

> Since a tooltip displays only when a user interacts with the target, the tooltip does not need to be created until interaction.

Author: Done

tooltips, which is not uncommon, adding this optimization can speed up initial
page rendering by a meaningful amount.

To do this, you'll create a function users will call with a tooltip target
element and a callback that will render tooltip content on demand when

> its needed. Add a `static` method to the `SimpleTooltip` class called

Reviewer 2: New paragraph before `Add` since it's directly actionable it could use its own paragraph start.

Author: Done

`lazy`. It will setup event listeners on the target element that listen on the
same events used to trigger the tooltip. The listener creates the tooltip
element and calls the user callback with it to fill in the content before
showing it. Near the top of the class definition, add:

> ```ts

Reviewer 2: JS switchable sample

Author: Done

static lazy(target: Element, callback: (target: SimpleTooltip) => void) {
  let called = false;
  enterEvents.forEach(name => target.addEventListener(name, () => {
    if (!called) {
      called = true;

>       const tooltip = document.createElement('simple-tooltip') as SimpleTooltip;

Reviewer 2: can skip this assertion if you add the TS global HTMLTagNameMap declaration at the bottom

Author: Done

      callback(tooltip);
      target.parentNode!.insertBefore(tooltip, target.nextSibling);
      tooltip.show();
    }
  }, {once: true}));
}
```
<aside class="info">The <code>once</code> option is used to automatically
remove the event listener after it fires once. Since the callback should be
called only once and there are multiple triggering events, a flag is used to
manage the state.</aside>

Now open the `my-content.ts` module and change one of the tooltips to use
the `lazy` method. To do so, first add an `id` to the target and remove the
inline tooltip:

> ```html

Reviewer 2: This was a bit difficult to find in all that markup. Not sure how to solve this other than clearing up the examples

Annoying since you need to go through all the files, but you can probably remove the button example since you don't really ask the user to interact with that one

Author: Done

<p>
  <span id="greeting">Hello, ${this.name}!</span>
</p>
```

> Then add a `firstUpdated` method to setup the call to `lazy`:

Reviewer 2: Don't do `firstUpdated` dirty!

> Then define the `firstUpdated` lifecycle [callback|method]

Author: Done

> ```ts

Reviewer 2: filename. Is this in my-content or simple-tooltip

Author: Done

> firstUpdated() {

Reviewer 2: Forgot to mention the import of the SimpleTooltip class I suggest maybe this code snippet:

```ts
import {SimpleTooltip} from './simple-tooltip.js';

@customElement('my-content')
export class MyContent extends LitElement {
  ...
  firstUpdated() {
    const greeting = this.shadowRoot!.getElementById('greeting')!;
    SimpleTooltip.lazy(greeting, (tooltip: SimpleTooltip) => {
      tooltip.textContent = `${this.name}, there's coffee available in the lounge.`;
    });
  }
}
```

Author: Done

You've polished the tooltip's behavior with animations. Now it's time to ensure
great performance. Since a tooltip displays only when the user interacts its
target, it doesn't need to be created until then. If a page uses a lot of
tooltips, which is not uncommon, adding this optimization can speed up initial
page rendering by a meaningful amount.

> To do this, create a `static` method on the element class called `lazy`. It will

Author: Refined the text.

setup event listeners on the target element that listen on the same events
used to trigger the tooltip. Call a supplied callback function
the first time one of these events is triggered and if a tooltip element is
returned, show it for the target. Near the top of the class definition, add:

```ts
static lazy(target: Element, callback: (target: Element) => SimpleTooltip|undefined) {
  let called = false;
  enterEvents.forEach(name => target.addEventListener(name, () => {
    if (!called) {
      called = true;

>       const tooltip  = callback(target);

Author: Makes sense. This is a modification of an initial approach and didn't go far enough.

>       const tooltip  = callback(target);

Author: Done.
